# Courier

**Courier is an end-to-end encrypted file transfer app currently in development for iOS with support planned for Android, macOS, and Windows.** The iOS app uses Apple’s Common Crypto library which provides symmetric encryption, hash-based message authentication codes, and digests. To send a file, the sender must select a document, image, video, or anything else to send. Once they have selected something to send, the server provides them with a random 9-digit code that identifies the transfer and they are prompted for a password to encrypt the file during transfer. The sender must tell the receiver both the 9-digit code and the password to decrypt the file. After the receiver enters this 9-digit code and the password in their app, the transfer begins. The file is read and transferred in chunks using Socket.IO so that the entire file does not have to be loaded into memory. Files are encrypted on the sender’s device with the user-provided password using AES-256-CBC and a cryptographically secure pseudorandom 128-bit initialization vector. The 256-bit encryption key and 256-bit HMAC key are derived from the password using PBKDF2-HMAC-SHA-512 with a minimum of 10,000 iterations. Additionally, authentication and integrity of all transferred data is verified with HMAC-SHA256. If the receiver enters an incorrect password or the HMAC verification fails, the file will not be decrypted, and the transfer will stop. Once the transfer completes, the receiver can save the file to their device or open it in another app.
